# Bootstrap Responsive Grid
Define different gutters and container margins for each breakpoint when using Bootstrap.

This package can be used as a wrapper around [Bootstrap 4](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap) and provides variables to customise the gutter widths and the container margins separately for each break-points and independently of each other.

## Usage

### Installation
Install using npm, e.g.: 

`npm install --save bootstrap-responsive-grid`

### Setup
You can use `scss/bootstrap.scss` or `scss/bootstrap-grid.scss` of this package the same way as you would use the same files provided by Bootstrap.

In your main scss file instead of `@import "~bootstrap";` you can use `@import "~bootstrap-responsive-grid";`.

If you are using only the Bootstrap grid, instead of `@import "~bootstrap/scss/bootstrap-grid";` you can use `@import "~bootstrap-responsive-grid/scss/bootstrap-grid";`.

If you would like more granular control over the specific Bootstrap components, you can make a copy of `scss/bootstrap/bootstrap.scss`, edit each `@import` that does not start with `"~bootstrap/...` to start with `"~bootstrap-responsive-grid/scss/bootstrap/...` and remove any lines corresponding to components you don't need. E.g.:
```[SCSS]
@import "~bootstrap/scss/functions";
@import "~bootstrap/scss/variables";
@import "~bootstrap-responsive-grid/scss/variables";
@import "~bootstrap/scss/mixins";
@import "~bootstrap-responsive-grid/scss/bootstrap/mixins/grid-framework";
@import "~bootstrap-responsive-grid/scss/bootstrap/mixins/grid";
@import "~bootstrap-responsive-grid/scss/mixins";
@import "~bootstrap/scss/root";
@import "~bootstrap/scss/reboot";
@import "~bootstrap/scss/type";
@import "~bootstrap/scss/images";
@import "~bootstrap/scss/code";
@import "~bootstrap-responsive-grid/scss/bootstrap/grid";
@import "~bootstrap/scss/tables";
@import "~bootstrap/scss/forms";
@import "~bootstrap/scss/buttons";
```

### Configuration

Similar to Bootstrap, the package uses SCSS variables as the entry point for your settings. The default configuration matches the out of the box default behaviour of Bootstrap: 30px for gutters and 15px for container margins on all resolutions.

To customise these, add the following SCSS map variables before importing the package files:
```[SCSS]
$grid-gutter-widths: (
  xs: 10px,
  sm: 20px,
  md: 30px,
  lg: 40px,
  xl: 60px
);

$grid-container-margins: (
  xs: 20px,
  sm: 30px,
  md: 40px,
  lg: 60px,
  xl: 80px
);
```

The `xs` part is mandatory in both maps. The other breakpoints from `sm` and above are optional. Any breakpoint not provided in the map will use the same value from the breakpoint below.

To take full control of the Bootstrap grid system you may also want to customise the `$container-max-widths` and `$grid-breakpoints` default Bootstrap map variables. For details see `scss/_variables.scss` in Bootstrap.

## FAQ

- Why there are no `bootstrap.css`, `bootstrap.min.css`, `bootstrap-grid.css` or `bootstrap-grid.min.css` files?
  - It would be impossible to customise the SCSS variables within precompiled CSS files. So this whole thing only makes sense if you are working with the SCSS sources. If you would like to compile the `css` files from this package, first, make sure you modify the default `scss/_variables.scss` file and run the `npm run css-compile-main` command. The generated `css` files should appear in the `dist/css` folder. However it is recommended to rather `@import` the SCSS files of this package (as described above) and build your final `css` file together with the rest of your styles, for example using [Webpack](https://github.com/webpack/webpack).

- Why there is no `dist/js` folder generated by this package?
  - This packages changes nothing related to the JavaScript files, so it is fine to use the `js` files from the official Bootstrap package.

## Side effects

**Note: This section only applies if your `$grid-gutter-widths` are not exactly half of the corresponding `$grid-container-margins`. Otherwise everything works the same as in standard Bootstrap!**

Normally in Bootstrap the two value always balance each other. By default, the gutter is 30px, and there is a 15-15px padding on each side of the containers. Because of this, the rows always reach the full width of their containers, and the space available inside a 12 wide column is the same as the space available inside the container.

This means a row in a fluid container always spans the full width of the viewport, and rows together with fluid containers can be well utilised to set full width background colors or images.

However when the container margins do not exactly match the half ot the gutter widths, rows inside containers does not span the full inner width of the containers. There is no trivial way around it, since the negative margins of the rows MUST match the column paddings to keep the layout working.

This is not really an issue in most cases, as the width of a row is not important from a visual perspective in most cases. However when a row is used to paint the background of a section this can be an issue.

For this reason an additional class is introduced: `row-fluid`. It can be used as a drop in replacement for `row` class. A `<div class=row-fluid">` inside a container always spans the full inner width of the container. The downside however that columns would not align with the rest of the layout inside such a row.

But since such row spans the full inner width of the parent container, a non-fluid container can be used inside to build a normal layout.

This may be confusing, so here's an example of equivalent setup in Bootstrap, and Bootstrap Responsive Grid configured with non-matching gutters and margins:

```html
<!-- Bootstrap: -->
<div class="container-fluid">
    <div class="row" style="background-color: darkred;">
        <div class="col">
            <div class="cell">content</div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

<!-- Bootstrap Responsive Grid: -->
<div class="container-fluid">
    <div class="row-fluid" style="background-color: darkred;">
        <div class="container">
            <div class="row">
                <div class="col">
                    <div class="cell">content</div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
```


## Issues

### Known Issues
The `css` files generated by the mixins have a little overhead compared to the default Bootstrap, however this is not significant (<10kB, ~3% for `bootstrap.css` and ~9% for `bootstrap-grid.css`). This could be further reduced by refactoring some of the custom SCSS code, but this is still better than using default Bootstrap grid and adding additional code after to manually override the grid parameters.

### Unknown Issues

This is not a well tested solution. It works fine for me, and I'll fix any issues I find with it, but your mileage may vary. If you find any issues, please report [here](https://github.com/BenceSzalai/bootstrap-responsive-grid/issues), and I'll try to fix it so this package can be improved. Pull requests are welcome as well!


***

Bence Szalai - https://sbnc.eu/
